extra/AWS Setup.md, before:

# AWS Setup

## SSH Keys (Locally: Git Bash)

1. Generate SSH key:

   `$ ssh-keygen`

2. List SSH keys:

   `$ ls ~/.ssh`

3. Copy public SSH key:

   `$ cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`

## AWS Console

[AWS Console](https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/console/home?region=us-east-1)

**NOTE:** The video does not cover the steps #2 (adding port 80) and #5, but it needs to be done in order to work properly.

1. Create VPC

2. Create Security Group: _EC2 -> Network & Security -> Security Group_ (allow access via SSH and ports 80 and 8080)

3. Add the SSH public key: _EC2 -> Key Pairs -> Actions -> Import key pair_

4. Create EC2 instance: _EC2 -> Instances -> Launch instances_

5. Create Elastic IPs (used to keep the same EC2 IP when instance is stopped and started):

   - _EC2 -> Network & Security -> Elastic IPs -> Allocate Elastic IP address_
   - _EC2 -> Network & Security -> Elastic IPs -> Actions -> Associate Elastic IP address -> Instance_

6. Create Route 53:

   - _Route 53 -> Hosted zones -> Create hosted zone_
   - _Route 53 -> Hosted zones -> Create record_

7. Set the Route traffic to Hostinger DNS / Nameservers

## AWS via SSH (Locally: Git Bash)

1. Connect to EC2 via Git Bash (enter the ssh password):

   `$ ssh ec2-user@<EC2_INSTANCE_IPV4_ADDRESS>`

2. Update Linux packages:

   `$ sudo yum update`

3. Docker setup (if applicable):

   - Install docker:

     `$ sudo yum install docker`

   - Start docker:

     `$ sudo service docker start`

   - Login docker:

     `$ sudo docker login`

   - Add the ec2-user to the docker group to avoid using sudo every time for Docker commands:

     `$ sudo usermod -a -G docker ec2-user`

   - Exit from AWS to reflect the admin right:

     `$ exit`

4. Docker Compose setup (if applicable):

   - Install docker compose:

     `$ sudo curl -L https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/latest/download/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m) -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose`

   - Grant executable permission:

     `$ sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose`

5. Install git (if applicable):

   `$ sudo yum install git`

---

Now, if applicable, perform one of the approaches from **mongodb** described in README.md to deploy a **MongoDB** instance.

Then perform one of the approaches from **java-app** described in README.md to deploy a **Java App** instance.

Commit message:

Updating Elastic IP address info in AWS Setup file

extra/AWS Setup.md, after:

# AWS Setup

## SSH Keys (Locally: Git Bash)

1. Generate SSH key:

   `$ ssh-keygen`

2. List SSH keys:

   `$ ls ~/.ssh`

3. Copy public SSH key:

   `$ cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub`

## AWS Console

[AWS Console](https://us-east-1.console.aws.amazon.com/console/home?region=us-east-1)

**NOTE:** The video does not cover the steps #2 (adding port 80) and #5, but it needs to be done in order to work properly.

1. Create VPC

2. Create Security Group: _EC2 -> Network & Security -> Security Group_ (allow access via SSH and ports 80 and 8080)

3. Add the SSH public key: _EC2 -> Key Pairs -> Actions -> Import key pair_

4. Create EC2 instance: _EC2 -> Instances -> Launch instances_

5. `[charged]` Create Elastic IPs (used to keep the same EC2 IP when instance is stopped and started):

   - _EC2 -> Network & Security -> Elastic IPs -> Allocate Elastic IP address_
   - _EC2 -> Network & Security -> Elastic IPs -> Actions -> Associate Elastic IP address -> Instance_

   To remove a created Elastic IP address, follow these steps:

   - _Actions -> Disassociate Elastic IP address_
   - _Actions -> Release Elastic IP address_

6. Create Route 53:

   - _Route 53 -> Hosted zones -> Create hosted zone_
   - _Route 53 -> Hosted zones -> Create record_

7. Set the Route traffic to Hostinger DNS / Nameservers

## AWS via SSH (Locally: Git Bash)

1. Connect to EC2 via Git Bash (enter the ssh password):

   `$ ssh ec2-user@<EC2_INSTANCE_IPV4_ADDRESS>`

2. Update Linux packages:

   `$ sudo yum update`

3. Docker setup (if applicable):

   - Install docker:

     `$ sudo yum install docker`

   - Start docker:

     `$ sudo service docker start`

   - Login docker:

     `$ sudo docker login`

   - Add the ec2-user to the docker group to avoid using sudo every time for Docker commands:

     `$ sudo usermod -a -G docker ec2-user`

   - Exit from AWS to reflect the admin right:

     `$ exit`

4. Docker Compose setup (if applicable):

   - Install docker compose:

     `$ sudo curl -L https://github.com/docker/compose/releases/latest/download/docker-compose-$(uname -s)-$(uname -m) -o /usr/local/bin/docker-compose`

   - Grant executable permission:

     `$ sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/docker-compose`

5. Install git (if applicable):

   `$ sudo yum install git`

---

Now, if applicable, perform one of the approaches from **mongodb** described in README.md to deploy a **MongoDB** instance.

Then perform one of the approaches from **java-app** described in README.md to deploy a **Java App** instance.
